toc: false
# SystemC Summer of Code 2025

<br>
Accellera Systems Initiative will host the **SystemC Summer of Code (SSoC)** 2025 program and invited students to sign-up for a 12 week C++-based programming assignment during the summer period.

Submitted applications are based on the use of Accellera’s [SystemC reference implementation][1] or any of the SystemC extensions for [Analog/Mixed-Signal (AMS)][2], [Control and Inspection (CCI)][3], [Common Practices][4], or [Verification][5].

The SystemC Summer of Code 2025 Program will start soon! Applicants have been selected and the project proposals are currently being reviewed.


<!--
## Application process

If you are interest to contribute to the evolution of the SystemC ecosystem, please submit your application to [ssoc@lists.accellera.org](mailto:ssoc@lists.accellera.org). Applications can be submitted from March 5 onwards. The application deadline is April 4.

**A submission should include the following documents:**

 1. Your project proposal
 2. Your resume/CV
 3. Evidence that you are a student at an accredited college or university
 4. A signed [Contributor Agreement](https://workspace.accellera.org/document/dl/13437)



As recognition scheme, stipends will be paid per month, for a maximum of three (3) months, and based on successful evaluations of the (intermediate) deliverables. The maximum amount of stipends is 1,000 USD/month, depending on project difficulty and actual allocation. The exact amount of stipends will be communicated at the start of each project.

*Students are encouraged to apply quickly, as there are limited seats available. Students are notified not later than April 7.*
-->

## Timeline

 * February 24: SystemC Summer of Code (SSoC) 2025 program announced
 * March 5: Application submission opened (CLOSED now)
 * April 4: Application deadline
 * May – August: Coding period
 * September – October: Wrap-up and hand-over project to the Accellera working groups

## Suggested project proposals for 2025

This section lists the suggested projects by Accellera, and students were encouraged to improve and enrich these proposals.

*NOTE: We will announce the selected projects soon*

 * Advancing the SystemC build and test flow using Continuous Integration (CI)
 * Thread-safe SystemC reference implementation
 * SystemC Control Interface
 * Federated Simulation including SystemC

### Advancing the SystemC build and test flow using Continuous Integration (CI)

This project focuses on the improvement of the overall quality of Accellera’s [SystemC reference implementation][1] and [Configuration, Control and Inspection (CCI) library][6] with the aim to lower the barriers to start using these libraries. As of now, a Continuous Integration (CI) build and test flow exists for the SystemC CCI library. For the SystemC reference implementation, a very basic CI/CD build flow is available. Furthermore, both the SystemC and SystemC CCI library need a upgrade of the CMake-based build system to ease integration into other CMake projects. Also the regression environment requires a major upgrade, replacing the old Perl runners by a more modern test infrastructure like GoogleTest.

  * Skills required: C++, SystemC, CMake, Git, Github Actions, Perl, GoogleTest
  * Mentors: *will be announced later*
  * Expected duration: 480h (12 weeks)
  * Level of difficulty: Low
  * Expected outcome: CI/CD build flow for SystemC and CCI including improved CMake build, test coverage, release automation and visualization 

### Thread-safe SystemC reference implementation 

This project proposal is to upgrade the existing [SystemC reference implementation][1] and make it thread-safe. Thread-safety is important to be able to use SystemC in a multi-threading environment, and improvements are required in the underlying simulation engine as well as in the SystemC data types. The latest SystemC standard, IEEE Std. 1666-2023, defines C++17 as baseline language, which enables the use of C++17 language capabilties and features to upgrade the simulation engine. Note however that enhancements should not alter the public API, to maintain compatible with the existing SystemC standard.

  * Skills required: C++, SystemC, Git, multi-thread applications
  * Mentors: *will be announced later*
  * Expected duration: 480h (12 weeks)
  * Level of difficulty: Medium
  * Expected outcome: Thread-safe SystemC reference implementation leveraging C++17 language constructs and features. 

### SystemC Control Interface

This project proposal is to develop a control interface as part of the [Configuration, Control and Inspection (CCI) library][6]. The control interface should offer an interactive API to control the simulator (e.g., start, stop, pause), offer means to access parameters (e.g., set, get, inspect) and offer a light-weight interactive API to enable inspection and debug. Implementation of such API could be implemented as command-line interface (CLI) or might use web-techologies such as a REST-API.

  * Skills required: C++, SystemC, CCI, Git
  * Mentors: *will be announced later*
  * Expected duration: 480h (12 weeks)
  * Level of difficulty: Medium
  * Expected outcome: SystemC CCI control API 

### Federated simulation including SystemC 

Federated simulation targets an efficient integration of multiple system-level models and/or simulation environments into a distributed and orchestrated simulation framework. It should enable multi-domain simulation where different models-of-computation are integrated and synchronized. Accellera has started the [Federated Simulation Working Group and User Group][7] to address the interoperability and standardization aspects to enable combining existing standards and technologies such as SystemC TLM, [FMI][8], [QEMU][9] and [Zenoh][10]. This project aims at building a demonstrator where different simulation and modeling technologies like SystemC and FMI are combined and interconnected via an existing transport layer (e.g. DDS, SilKit or Zenoh). 

  * Skills required: C++, SystemC, FMI, QEMU, (DDS | Zenoh | Silkit)
  * Mentors: *will be announced later*
  * Expected duration: 480h (12 weeks)
  * Level of difficulty: Hard
  * Expected outcome: Demonstrator showing intercommunication between two or more simulation engines containing models implemented in e.g. SystemC TLM, FMI, QEMU  

[1]: https://github.com/accellera-official/systemc
[2]: https://systemc.org/overview/systemc-ams/
[3]: https://systemc.org/overview/systemc-cci/
[4]: https://systemc.org/overview/systemc-scp/
[5]: https://systemc.org/overview/systemc-verification/
[6]: https://github.com/accellera-official/cci
[7]: https://www.accellera.org/activities/working-groups/fss-working-group
[8]: https://fmi-standard.org/
[9]: https://www.qemu.org/
[10]: https://zenoh.io/

## Contact us for more information

Feel free to contact us if you have questions or if you need more information: [ssoc@lists.accellera.org](mailto:ssoc@lists.accellera.org)