toc: false
# List of project ideas for GSoC 2023
<br>
[Accellera Systems Initiative][1] applied as mentoring organization in [Google Summer of Code][2] (GSoC). This page lists the (draft) project ideas suggested by Accellera for GSoC. As Accellera is not yet an accepted mentoring organization, the proposals are not finalized and detailed. The final list of suggested project ideas will be made available end of February 2023.  We encourage contributors to the GSoC to review these proposals and contact us to discuss these further by email: **gsoc[at]lists.accellera.org** 

All proposals are based on the use of [SystemC][3], which is a C++ class library providing an event-driven and transaction-level simulation interface to create system-level models of hardware and software at multiple levels of abstraction. SystemC has been released by the IEEE Standards Association as [IEEE 1666-2011][4] - the SystemC Language Reference Manual (LRM). The Accellera Systems Initiative maintains the [SystemC reference implementation][5] providing an open-source proof-of-concept simulator. SystemC has found its way in many industry supported electronics design automation (EDA) tools and technologies, listed [here][12].

## GSoC 2023 Idea List (draft)

 * Advancing SystemC Infrastructure
 * SystemC reference implementation upgrade
 * SystemC virtual model of a System-on-a-Chip
 * Federated Simulation including SystemC

More details are listed below.

## Timeline

The timeline for GSoC 2023 can be found [here][14].

## Advancing SystemC Infrastructure

The idea is to improve the overall quality of Accellera’s [SystemC reference implementation][5] and [Configuration, Control and Inspection (CCI) library][13] and lower barriers to start using them. As of now, a Continuous Integration (CI) build and test flow exists only for SystemC CCI as part of the public release. Sanitizer builds, coverage tests are not part of this CI flow. For SystemC no CI flow is currently available. Furthermore, both the SystemC and SystemC CCI reference implementations are in need of a build system update to ease integration into other CMake projects.

  * Skills required: C++, CMake, Git, Github Actions, Automake, Perl, GoogleTest
  * Mentors: Lukas Jünger, Mark Burton
  * Expected Size: 350h
  * Level of Difficulty: Low
  * Expected outcome: CI/CD build flow for SystemC and CCI including Automake and CMake build, test coverage, release automation and visualization 

## SystemC reference implementation upgrade

The idea is to upgrade the existing [SystemC reference implementation][5] by using modern C++17 language constructs and features. The SystemC language itself has been standardized by IEEE Std. 1666 and documented in the Language Reference Manual, which is currently being renewed. As C++17 is the new baseline for the upcoming SystemC standard, the public API of the reference implementation should be made compatible with this new standard, and there is also an opportunity to update the implementation-specific simulation kernel.

*More details will follow*

## SystemC virtual model of a System-on-a-Chip

The idea is to develop a SystemC virtual model to demonstrate the capabilities of the SystemC language standard to create a system-level model of a System-on-a-Chip (SoC). The SystemC virtual model might use additional SystemC libraries such as [SystemC-AMS][6] (Analog/Mixed-Signal), [CCI][7] (Configuration, Control and Inspection), [UVM-SystemC][8] (Universal Verification Methodology in SystemC) or other C/C++ language features to demonstrate the capabilities of using an executable virtual model. 

  * Skills required: C++, Familiarity with SystemC and one or more extension libraries (e.g., AMS, CCI, UVM-SystemC)
  * Mentors: Martin Barnasconi, Laurent Maillet-Contoz
  * Expected Size: 350h
  * Level of Difficulty: Medium
  * Expected outcome: Demonstrator of a SystemC-based virtual model of a System-on-a-Chip (SoC)
  
## Federated simulation including SystemC 

Federated simulation targets an efficient integration and orchestration of multiple system-level models and their execution semantics into one unified system simulation. It should facilitate multi-domain simulation where different models-of-computation are integrated and synchronized. Various initiatives in different industries have been started targeting Federated simulation and standardization, such as the Simulation Model Portability ([SMP2][9]) and the Functional Mock-up Interface ([FMI][10]). The idea is to demonstrate how SystemC Transaction Level Modeling ([TLM][11]) can be used and interact with these other standardized simulation interfaces.

You will learn about the intricacies of event-based and transaction-level simulation, and how different simulation standards handle concepts such as time. Concretely you will build a model using either SMP2 or FMI/FMU and let it communicate with an existing platform model, booting linux and showing your new device connects and works!

  * Skills required:
    * Familiarity with Linux build environment (cmake flows, git, etc)
    * C++
    * Familiarity with concepts of remote procedure calls
  * Mentors: Mark Burton, Lukas Jünger
  * Expected Size: 350h
  * Level of Difficulty: Hard
  * Expected outcome: Demonstrator showing intercommunication between at least two simulation engines, containing models implemented in SystemC TLM, SMP and/or FMI


[1]: https://www.accellera.org/
[2]: https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/
[3]: https://systemc.org/overview/systemc/
[4]: https://standards.ieee.org/ieee/1666/4814/
[5]: https://github.com/accellera-official/systemc
[6]: https://systemc.org/overview/systemc-ams/
[7]: https://systemc.org/overview/systemc-cci/
[8]: https://systemc.org/overview/systemc-verification/
[9]: https://ecss.nl/standard/ecss-e-st-40-07c-simulation-modelling-platform-2-march-2020/
[10]: https://fmi-standard.org/
[11]: https://systemc.org/overview/systemc-tlm/
[12]: https://systemc.org/resources/tools/
[13]: https://github.com/accellera-official/cci
[14]: https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/timeline
