toc: false
# Summer of SystemC 2025

Accellera Systems Initiative will host the **Summer of SystemC (SoSC)** event and invites students to sign-up for a 12 week C++-based programming assignment during the summer period. This page lists the projects proposed by Accellera for the SSoC, but students are encouraged to improve and enrich these proposals! If you are interest to contribute to the evolution of the SystemC ecosystem, please submit your project proposal along with your resume to **sosc[at]lists.accellera.org**.

Submitted proposals should be based on the use of Accellera’s [SystemC reference implementation][1] or any of the SystemC extensions for [Analog/Mixed-Signal (AMS)][2], [Control and Inspection (CCI)][3], [Common Practices][4], or [Verification][5].

## Timeline

 * February 24: **Summer of SystemC (SoSC)** program and project proposals announced, Start submissions
 * April 8: Submission deadline
 * May 5: Projects and students announced, start preparation with Accellera Mentors
 * June – July – August: Coding period
 * September: Wrap-up and hand-over project to the Accellera working groups
 * October 14: Recognition event at DVCon Europe 2025 

## 2025 Project Proposals

 * Advancing the SystemC build and test flow using Continuous Integration (CI)
 * Thread-safe SystemC reference implementation
 * SystemC Control Interface
 * Federated Simulation including SystemC

### Advancing the SystemC build and test flow using Continuous Integration (CI)

This project focuses on the improvement of the overall quality of Accellera’s [SystemC reference implementation][1] and [Configuration, Control and Inspection (CCI) library][6] with the aim to lower the barriers to start using these libraries. As of now, a Continuous Integration (CI) build and test flow exists for the SystemC CCI library. For the SystemC reference implementation, a very basic CI/CD build flow is available. Furthermore, both the SystemC and SystemC CCI library need a upgrade of the CMake-based build system to ease integration into other CMake projects. Also the regression environment requires a major upgrade, replacing the old Perl runners by a more modern test infrastructure like GoogleTest.

  * Skills required: C++, SystemC, CMake, Git, Github Actions, Perl, GoogleTest
  * Mentors: Lukas Jünger, Mark Burton
  * Expected duration: 480h (12 weeks)
  * Level of difficulty: Low
  * Expected outcome: CI/CD build flow for SystemC and CCI including improved CMake build, test coverage, release automation and visualization 

### Thread-safe SystemC reference implementation 

This project proposal is to upgrade the existing [SystemC reference implementation][1] and make it thread-safe. Thread-safety is important to be able to use SystemC in a multi-threading environment, and improvements are required  in the underlying simulation engine as well as in the SystemC data types. The latest SystemC standard, IEEE Std. 1666-2023, defines C++17 as baseline language, which enables the use of C++17 language capabilties and features to upgrade the simulation engine. Note however that enhancements should not alter the public API, to maintain compatible with the existing SystemC standard.

  * Skills required: C++, SystemC, Git, multi-thread applications
  * Mentors: TBD
  * Expected duration: 480h (12 weeks)
  * Level of difficulty: Medium
  * Expected outcome: Thread-safe SystemC reference implementation leveraging C++17 language constructs and features. 

### SystemC Control Interface

This project proposal is to develop a control interface as part of the [Configuration, Control and Inspection (CCI) library][6]. The control interface should offer an interactive API to control the simulator (e.g., start, stop, pause), offer means to access parameters (e.g., set, get, inspect) and offer a light-weight interactive API to enable inspection and debug. Implementation of such API could be implemented as command-line interface (CLI) or might use web-techologies such as a REST-API.

  * Skills required: C++, SystemC, CCI, Git
  * Mentors: Lukas Jünger
  * Expected duration: 480h (12 weeks)
  * Level of difficulty: Medium
  * Expected outcome: SystemC CCI control API 

### Federated simulation including SystemC 

Federated simulation targets an efficient integration of multiple system-level models and/or simulation environments into a distributed and orchestrated simulation framework. It should enable multi-domain simulation where different models-of-computation are integrated and synchronized. Accellera has started the [Federated Simulation Working Group and User Group][7] to address the interoperability and standardization aspects to enable combining existing standards and technologies such as SystemC TLM, [FMI][8], [QEMU][9] and [Zenoh][10]. This project aims at building a demonstrator where different simulation and modeling technologies like SystemC and FMI are combined and interconnected via an existing transport layer (e.g. DDS, SilKit or Zenoh). 

  * Skills required: C++, SystemC, FMI, QEMU, (DDS | Zenoh | Silkit)
  * Mentors: Mark Burton, Lukas Jünger
  * Expected duration: 480h (12 weeks)
  * Level of difficulty: Hard
  * Expected outcome: Demonstrator showing intercommunication between two or more simulation engines containing models implemented in e.g. SystemC TLM, FMI, QEMU  

[1]: https://github.com/accellera-official/systemc
[2]: https://systemc.org/overview/systemc-ams/
[3]: https://systemc.org/overview/systemc-cci/
[4]: https://systemc.org/overview/systemc-scp/
[5]: https://systemc.org/overview/systemc-verification/
[6]: https://github.com/accellera-official/cci
[7]: https://www.accellera.org/activities/working-groups/fss-working-group
[8]: https://fmi-standard.org/
[9]: https://www.qemu.org/
[10]: https://zenoh.io/
